README.md, before:

# Project Ideas

Please add your project idea to the end of the file. Do not edit any of the other text. Do not remove the sample project idea or the template for ideas. Do not remove anyone else's project idea. Do not push an update with merge conflicts.

## Project Idea: Data Science Platform (Sample Description) [Don't Edit]

This project will build a platform for exploring large datasets and applying pre-built machine learning algorithms to the data. The team will implement a Java Spring-based web platform for uploading, browsing, and formatting datasets. In addition, the team will implement a variety of machine learning algorithms / techniques that can be applied to the data. The machine learning modules will primarily be implemented in Python. 

The platform will focus on classification tasks. Users will be able to upload datasets in CSV or JSON and then select attributes of each data item to serve as labels. Once labeled datasets are available, users will be able to use graphical tools to draw a machine learning pipeline and choose algorithms to apply to the data without coding.

## Project Idea: Your Project Title Here [Don't Edit]

Your 2-paragraph project description here...

And here...

# All Project Ideas Down Here

Add your project ideas after this sentence.

Commit message:

ResQ
Foster and Rescue Organization Platform

README.md, after:

# Project Ideas

Please add your project idea to the end of the file. Do not edit any of the other text. Do not remove the sample project idea or the template for ideas. Do not remove anyone else's project idea. Do not push an update with merge conflicts.

## Project Idea: Data Science Platform (Sample Description) [Don't Edit]

This project will build a platform for exploring large datasets and applying pre-built machine learning algorithms to the data. The team will implement a Java Spring-based web platform for uploading, browsing, and formatting datasets. In addition, the team will implement a variety of machine learning algorithms / techniques that can be applied to the data. The machine learning modules will primarily be implemented in Python. 

The platform will focus on classification tasks. Users will be able to upload datasets in CSV or JSON and then select attributes of each data item to serve as labels. Once labeled datasets are available, users will be able to use graphical tools to draw a machine learning pipeline and choose algorithms to apply to the data without coding.

## Project Idea: Your Project Title Here [Don't Edit]

Your 2-paragraph project description here...

And here...

# All Project Ideas Down Here

Add your project ideas after this sentence.

## Project Idea: ResQ

The fostering and adoption community of Nashville is in need of a platform to centralize communication between animal shelters, rescue organizations, and volunteers. As a proud member of the foster community, I receive 3-4 emails a week requesting an available foster for dogs in need – all ranging from sick dogs, to newly-born puppies, to pregnant moms. However, the communication between all parties is highly inefficient. Due to their frequency, the emails are often sent to spam, and if I reply to foster, I am left scrambling for information in a long email chain of information easily lost in my inbox. The volunteer often picks up directly from the animal shelter, where information from the rescue organization is not always transmitted clearly. On the other hand, the rescue organization deals with a large influx of responses, and it is not discernable whether or not the requested foster is equipped to deal with large dogs, small dogs, medical cases, etc. The current system can be greatly improved and I propose a platform to do so: ResQ.

ResQ is a platform where animal shelters, rescue organizations, volunteers, and potential adopters can communicate to achieve the mission of finding all dogs a forever home. Depending on your affiliation with one of the four above groups, the platform showcases different functionalities. Rescue organizations can post animals in need of fostering as well as any other relevant information: pictures, age, breed, pounds, personality, medical needs, behavior (i.e. potty trained), space requirement (i.e. large yard), pickup place and time, etc. If a request to foster is received, the organization can easily cross check stored information about the foster to make sure the individual is equipped to handle the animal’s needs. Foster volunteers are notified as soon as a new posting is up, and can scroll through the postings with highlighted relevant information, eliminating the inconvenience of many lengthy emails. Volunteers can also set their notifications to filter animals in certain categories; for example, Jane is only able to foster dogs under 40 pounds in her apartment and prefers puppies. Once a foster exchange is confirmed by the rescue organization, ResQ takes care of everything on the backend. ResQ communicates shelter information, directs the foster to the shelter, and schedules a time for supply pick up, removing the need for repetitive conversations with every foster. ResQ will also directly notify the animal shelter, and feature a messaging service in case additional information is needed between parties. Potential adopters will be able to scroll through a message board of dogs currently available for adoption, and apply through the platform – handling the paperwork for the rescue organization. As an added bonus, community members, adopters and fosters alike, will be able to donate to the shelters, rescue organizations, and urgent medical cases! ResQ streamlines the rescue, foster, and adoption process with a platform that gets dogs into homes – efficiently and lovingly.
